---
layout: post
title: We Are The Ocean And The Light
---

The mornings are still hard. I woke up at 6 AM and tried to remember my dreams. I did, and wrote down what I could. I left my room at 6:30 AM thinking it was later and had to wait an hour and fifteen minutes for breakfast. I was hungry and distracted myself with a book.

It’s hard to be alone. It’s hard to be stuck with myself and my psyche. But I feel like I’m beginning to understand that the way to get past the pain of loneliness is to go through it. To go deeper into it so I can feel its shape and its nature. To gain an insight into it, and an understanding of it. To be a witness to my subjective reality.

Because there is no fighting the subjective reality. It’s the only reality that exists. Any sense of control over it is an illusion. Subjective reality is the ocean and my ego, my self is the swimmer. To fight the ocean is to fight the universe itself. I will only become tired, eventually sinking to the bottom of the deepest, darkest depths. But if I choose not to fight, if I instead give in and give up to its colossal surrounding presence, and I simply float calmly, then I can begin to understand its shape. I can feel the waves and the currents carry me to a destination I cannot see and I cannot change.

After a while, as I calmly float and regain the energy I lost in the fighting, I can begin to swim. Not to change my destination, or my destiny, but simply to be the swimmer in the ocean.

It’s funny to explain with analogies that which has a concrete form. Why not simply be direct and say what is there? But we don’t have the words for it. We have not agreed upon a name to give this thing. Too few of us have recognized its existence because it only becomes detectable as it refracts through the prism of our psyche, like the colors of the rainbow that make up the light from the sun. We are all swimming in an ocean of white light and only those of us who are “broken” can see that the colors of the rainbow, with their carefully chosen names, are all around us, bathing us in this kaleidoscopic existence.

And we shout to the others, “look! there is red, there is green! and orange!” as it dazzles us with its painful broken beauty. But the others cannot see, because they have never been broken. As we are carried away and patched back together, the colors fade to white and it’s easy to forget the beauty of our broken light.

But I don’t want to forget anymore. I want to know my reality so that I can live it fully. So that I don’t have to keep fighting only to sink again. I can’t choose where I will go, but I can choose how I will be where I am. And I choose to float in the painfully dazzling, kaleidoscopic light of my broken existence to serve as the witness to our reality. Because this is happening to us. This is where we are. These are the waves and currents that surround us. And as we float and swim, we will discover that we are the water. We are the ocean. We are the waves, and the currents, and the light.
